Q1).What are the http methods? Differentiate each method.
A).HTTP stands for Hyper Text Transfer Protocol.It is for establishing communication between server and client.
The different http methods are
 i  .Post:-To send data to sever.
 ii .Get:-To retrieve information from a given server using a given URI(Uniform Resource Identifier).
 iii.Put:-Replace all current representations of target resource with the new content.
 iv .Patch:-It is used to apply partial modifications to the resource,ie we may only need to send the updates
 v  .Delete:-Removes all current representations of the target resource from a given URI.
 vi .Options:-Describe the communication options for the target resource.
 vii.Head :-It is same as head,but transfers only status line and header section.
There are other methods like
 i.Connect:-Establishes a connection to the server by the given URI.
ii.Trace:-Performs a message loop back test along the path to target resource.

Q2).What are the different http response codes?
A).The http status codes are
1xx Informational
2xx Success
3xx Redirection
4xx Client Error
5xx Server Error

Q3).What is idempotency?
A).An idempotent method means that the result of a successful performed requesr is independent of the number of 
times its executed,i.e making multiple identical requests has the same effect as making a single request.

Q4).What is content delivery network?
A).A CDN allows for the quick transfer of assets needed for loading a webpage include HTML pages,javascript files
filesheets,images and videos.The main advantages of CDN are
 i.Improving the website load time:-As distributing center is near client,client may get faster response.
ii.Reducing the traffic on the server:-As the distributing servers are more,Main server gets the less requests since
majority of the work is done by the distributing servers themselves.

Q5).Different types of OS and Browsers? and technologies used in it?
A).Ubuntu-C++ language
   Linux-ANSI C
   Windows-Assembly,C and C++.
   MAC os- PASCAL,C and C++.
   UNIX-Assembly language.

Q6).What is meant by MEAN stack and MERN stack?
A).There are two dominant Javascript webapp stacks.They are
	i. MEAN stack(MongoDB, Express, Angular, Nodejs)
	ii.MERN stack(MongoDB, Expresss, React, Nodejs)
      The only difference between mean stack and mern stack is they differ in languages used like 
	Angularjs and Reactjs.

Q7).Advantages that compiled languages bring over interpreted languages
A).Features Interpreted languages give over compiled languages are
    i.Platform independancy
   ii.Dynamic scoping-It doesn't see how the code is written,instead how the code is executed.
  iii.Dynamic typing-Dynamic typed languages are languages in which variables must necessarily be defined 
      before the usage.

Q8).Time and space complexities?
A).Space Complexity:- It is a function describing the amount of memory(space) an algorith takes in terms 
   of amount of input to the algortihm.
   Time complexity:-It is the amount of time taken by a set of code or algorithm to process or run as a
   function of  input.
Different notations in time complexities are
  i.Big O:-For worst case scenario
 ii.Big omega:-For best case scenario
iii.Big theta:-For average case scenario.
 
Q9).Define Data structures:-
A).They are the way of organizing ,management and storing a huge amount of data for efficient, fast 
and smooth access of retrieval for a long run usage.
They are classified into 2 types.They are
 i.Linear data structures.
ii.Non linear data structures.
The different data structues are stacks, queues, linkedlists ,trees, arrays, graphs and so on.

Q10).Single thread and multi thread?
A).Single threaded programming:-
   i.only 1 thread runs at a time.
  ii.Cpu time is wasted and system idle time is more.
 iii.Results in less efficient programs.
Multi threaded programming:-
   i.Multiple threads run at a time.
  ii.cpu time is never wasted and idle time is less.
 iii.Results in high efficient progams.

Q11).What is multi processing and multi threading?
A).Multi-processing:-It means executing multiple processes at the same time.
it refers to hardware rather than software.
Multi-threading:-It is an execution model that allows a single processor to have multiple code segments run 
concurrently within the context of that process.
However, a system is efficient by using both multi-processing and multi-threading at the same time by
having more than one physical processor.

Q12).Difference between synchronous and asynchronous programming?
A).Synchronous execution usually refers to the code executing in sequence, whereas asynchronous execution 
refers to the code executing doesn't run in the sequence it appears in the code.
eg for synchronous execution:
alert(1);
alert(2);
alert(3);//code follows the same order.
eg for asynchronous execution
alert(1);
setTimeout(() => alert(2), 0);
alert(3);//code doesn't follow the same order.

Q13).What is Non blocking io?
A).Blocking io refers to block all the other operations till the current operation finishes
whereas non blocking io doesn't block any operations till the current operation finishes ie 
it continues to take any number of operations.

Q14).What is event loop?
A).As javascript is a single threaded language, it uses some of the concepts like eventloop.
Eventloop is a queue of call back functions and it has call stack and event queue,event queue.
The sole purpose of event table is to keep track of events and send them to event queue.
The event queue is similar to stack executing the calls that comes at the last.
Event loop runs till the call stack is empty.

Q15).What is libuv?
A).It is a multi-platform C library that provides support for asynchronous I/O based
 on event loops.It is written in C.It is designed to use in Nodejs.

Q16).What is V8 engine?
A).It is an opensource javascript engine for chrome browsers.It converts javascript to machine 
code before executing.It is used both in browsers and as a standalone high performance engine 
for independant projects.

Q17).Why Nodejs?
A).Nodejs is a platform  for building fast, scalable network applications.
It uses an eventloop, non-blocking I/O model that makes it lightweight and efficient
 to run across distributed devices.